README.md, before:

# About

A basic Alpine image with a few tools to enable you to better start of your work.

Mostly useful for Kubernetes [init containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/)
and debugging your own containers.

If you are missing anything, send in a merge request. Let's just not overdoit, folks.
Currently available:
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- awk ([gawk](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/manual/gawk.html))
- [bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/)
- [busybox](https://www.busybox.net) (with aliases for lots of tools...)
- [gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/), [bzip2](http://www.bzip.org/), and [xz](https://tukaani.org/xz/)
- [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/) and [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/)
- [sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/)
- postgres client ([psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/app-psql.html))
- [libressl](https://www.libressl.org/) (openssl fork)
- [vim](https://www.vim.org/) (who can live without it)

I might consider adding python and/or perl in the future, but they just seem too big ATM.

# Wait for service in Kubernetes

This image also includes a bash script `wait-for-service`, which will wait for a given service to be up before
continuing. It's API/parameter compatible with 
[fabric8-dependency-wait-service](https://github.com/fabric8-services/fabric8-dependency-wait-service) but
since it's written in BASH and not GO:
- the image is much smaller
- there's no need to include different binaries for different platforms
- more platforms are automatically supported out of the box (e.g. wherever BASH works)

## Environment variables

The following variables can be used to control the service:

| Variable | Possible values | Default value | Description |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| `DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE` | `true`/`false` | `true` | Puts out a little extra logging into output. (like *fabric8*) |
| `DEPENDENCY_POLL_INTERVAL` | A positive integer | 2 | The interval, in seconds, between each poll of the dependency check. (like *fabric8*) |
| `DEPENDENCY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` | A positive integer | 5 | How long to wait before the service timeouts, in seconds. (not possible with *fabric8*) |
| `SCRIPT_TIMEOUT` | A positive integer | 0 | A total time the script is allowed to run. 0 means "no timeout" |

## Usage
This utility is used as part of the [init containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/). 

Usage:
```
  wait-for-service [parameters] [tcp://host:port | postgres://[user@]host[:port] | http[s]://host[:port] | ... ] [-- command args]

  wait-for-service will wait for the specified service to be up and running before returning / exiting from the function.
    It will optionally run the command(s) at the end of the line after the commnad completes successfully.

    Available parameters:
    -t | --timeout=TIMEOUT            Script timeout parameter
    -v | --verbose                    Be verbose. 
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE=true
    -q | --quiet                      Be quiet. 
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE=false
    -c | --connection-timeout=TIMEOUT Timeout before the service is deemed inaccessible (default is 5 seconds).
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
    -p | --poll-interval=INTERVAL     Interval in seconds between polling retries.
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_POLL_INTERVAL
    -C | --colo[u]r                   Force colour output.

    tcp://host:port                   Wait for the given service to be available at specified host/port. Uses Netcat.
    postgres://[user@]host[:port]     Wait for PostgreSQL to be available. Uses pg_isready.
    http[s]://host[:port]             Wait for HTTP(s) service to be ready. Uses curl.
    
    -- COMMAND ARGS                   Execute command with args after the test finishes
```

An example is given below:

```yaml
spec:
  initContainers:
    - name: web-for-services
      image: "boky/alpine-bootstrap"
      command: [ 'wait-for-service', 'postgres://user@host:port', 'https://whole-url-to-service', 'tcp://host:port', ... ]
      # Or, using the fabric8-compatible symlink
      command: [ 'fabric8-dependency-wait-service-linux-amd64', 'postgres://user@host:port', 'https://whole-url-to-service', 'tcp://host:port', ... ]
      env:
        - name: DEPENDENCY_POLL_INTERVAL
          value: "10"
        - name: DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE
          value: "false"
        - name: DEPENDENCY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
          value: "10"
```

## Supported protocols

The following protocols are supported:
* **HTTP**: Anything that starts with `http://` or `https://` is considered a HTTP protocol. 
  [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/) is used to make a `HTTP HEAD`request. Automatically falls back
  to *TCP* check if `curl` is not available.
  A service is considered up if:
  * It doesn't time out
  * It returns a result in the range `2xx`

* **POSTGRES**: The syntax is: `postgres://[<user>@]<host>[:<port>]`. 
  The given postgres url is parsed for username, host, and port and passed to the 
  [pg_isready](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/app-pg-isready.html) utility. 
  Automatically falls back to *TCP* check if `pg_isready` is not avaiable.
  The db is considered up when *pg_isready returns a zero exit code*.
* **TCP**: The syntax is: `tcp://<host>:<port>`. [Netcat](http://netcat.sourceforge.net/) is used to 
  connect to the service. Service is considered up when *netcat* successfully connects and 
  *return a zero exit code*. If `netcat` is not avaialbe, uses `/dev/tcp` to send open up a port.

Commit message:

Added bash scripts for AWS access
This commit enables crude access to AWS services without using the
full fledged aws client (and over 100MB in dependencies).

README.md, after:

# About

A basic Alpine image with a few tools to enable you to better start of your work.

Mostly useful for Docker and Kubernetes 
[init containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/)
as well as debugging your own containers.

If you are missing anything, send in a merge request. Let's just not overdoit, folks.
Currently available:
- awk ([gawk](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/manual/gawk.html))
- [bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/)
- [busybox](https://www.busybox.net) (with aliases for lots of tools...)
- [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/) and [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/)
- [gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/), [bzip2](http://www.bzip.org/), and [xz](https://tukaani.org/xz/)
- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) A lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [libressl](https://www.libressl.org/) (openssl fork)
- [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/app-psql.html) - a PostgreSQL client
- [sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/)
- [vim](https://www.vim.org/) (who can live without it)
- *s3* A bash script for downloading secure files from AWS s3 without the need for the full fledged AWS client
- *get-authorization-token* A bash script for getting AWS ECR repository authorization token without the need for
  AWS client.

# AWS

These two scripts (*s3* and *get-authorization-token*) will require you set propery environment variables before
invoking them, namely: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION`. If you're an AWS user,
you'll know what they eman.

## Usage

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=xxx 
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=yyy 
export AWS_REGION=eu-central-2 

s3 bucket path/file.ext > file.ext
get-authorization-token
```

# Wait for service in Kubernetes

This image also includes a bash script `wait-for-service`, which will wait for a given service to be up before
continuing. It's API/parameter compatible with 
[fabric8-dependency-wait-service](https://github.com/fabric8-services/fabric8-dependency-wait-service) but
since it's written in BASH and not GO:
- the image is much smaller
- there's no need to include different binaries for different platforms
- more platforms are automatically supported out of the box (e.g. wherever BASH works)

## Environment variables

The following variables can be used to control the service:

| Variable | Possible values | Default value | Description |
| -------- | --------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| `DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE` | `true`/`false` | `true` | Puts out a little extra logging into output. (like *fabric8*) |
| `DEPENDENCY_POLL_INTERVAL` | A positive integer | 2 | The interval, in seconds, between each poll of the dependency check. (like *fabric8*) |
| `DEPENDENCY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` | A positive integer | 5 | How long to wait before the service timeouts, in seconds. (not possible with *fabric8*) |
| `SCRIPT_TIMEOUT` | A positive integer | 0 | A total time the script is allowed to run. 0 means "no timeout" |

## Usage
This utility is used as part of the [init containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/). 

Usage:
```
  wait-for-service [parameters] [tcp://host:port | postgres://[user@]host[:port] | http[s]://host[:port] | ... ] [-- command args]

  wait-for-service will wait for the specified service to be up and running before returning / exiting from the function.
    It will optionally run the command(s) at the end of the line after the commnad completes successfully.

    Available parameters:
    -t | --timeout=TIMEOUT            Script timeout parameter
    -v | --verbose                    Be verbose. 
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE=true
    -q | --quiet                      Be quiet. 
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE=false
    -c | --connection-timeout=TIMEOUT Timeout before the service is deemed inaccessible (default is 5 seconds).
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
    -p | --poll-interval=INTERVAL     Interval in seconds between polling retries.
                                      Alias for DEPENDENCY_POLL_INTERVAL
    -C | --colo[u]r                   Force colour output.

    tcp://host:port                   Wait for the given service to be available at specified host/port. Uses Netcat.
    postgres://[user@]host[:port]     Wait for PostgreSQL to be available. Uses pg_isready.
    http[s]://host[:port]             Wait for HTTP(s) service to be ready. Uses curl.
    
    -- COMMAND ARGS                   Execute command with args after the test finishes
```

An example is given below:

```yaml
spec:
  initContainers:
    - name: web-for-services
      image: "boky/alpine-bootstrap"
      command: [ 'wait-for-service', 'postgres://user@host:port', 'https://whole-url-to-service', 'tcp://host:port', ... ]
      # Or, using the fabric8-compatible symlink
      command: [ 'fabric8-dependency-wait-service-linux-amd64', 'postgres://user@host:port', 'https://whole-url-to-service', 'tcp://host:port', ... ]
      env:
        - name: DEPENDENCY_POLL_INTERVAL
          value: "10"
        - name: DEPENDENCY_LOG_VERBOSE
          value: "false"
        - name: DEPENDENCY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
          value: "10"
```

## Supported protocols

The following protocols are supported:
* **HTTP**: Anything that starts with `http://` or `https://` is considered a HTTP protocol. 
  [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/) is used to make a `HTTP HEAD`request. Automatically falls back
  to *TCP* check if `curl` is not available.
  A service is considered up if:
  * It doesn't time out
  * It returns a result in the range `2xx`

* **POSTGRES**: The syntax is: `postgres://[<user>@]<host>[:<port>]`. 
  The given postgres url is parsed for username, host, and port and passed to the 
  [pg_isready](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/app-pg-isready.html) utility. 
  Automatically falls back to *TCP* check if `pg_isready` is not avaiable.
  The db is considered up when *pg_isready returns a zero exit code*.
* **TCP**: The syntax is: `tcp://<host>:<port>`. [Netcat](http://netcat.sourceforge.net/) is used to 
  connect to the service. Service is considered up when *netcat* successfully connects and 
  *return a zero exit code*. If `netcat` is not avaialbe, uses `/dev/tcp` to send open up a port.
